version/1.0.md, before:

---
layout: default
status: draft
created_at: 2016-06-15
current: true
---

The Open Science Company Manifesto
==================================

This manifesto aims at defining fundamental statements every Company running
with the Open Science initiative in mind must respect and promote.

## Open Science pillars are [the Company] culture

Unless [the Company] has good reasons for not respecting them (such as National
Security), every principle of the Open Science initiative should be considered
as an organization's *credo*.

Each time [the Company] produces source code that could help other scientists in
their everyday work (software, data analysis, web servers, etc.), the code
should be open and stored in a public forge that eases community contributions
and explicitly states on its licensing and credits.

If relevant for the scientific community, scientific data collected by [the
Company] should be stored in a public repository that explicitly states on its
licensing and credits. [The Company] should carefully pay attention to the
repository terms & conditions before submitting data to this repository.
Institutional repositories (such as [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org)) must be the
primary choice, but, third-party repositories can also be considered if the
service maintainer (company or institution) explicitly states on the future of
stored data when that maintainer status evolves (fusion, acquisition,
liquidation).

When the time to publish research results has come, [the Company] submits its
manuscript to Open Access journals with an Open Peer Review process.

## Users are not the product

If [the Company] provides a service such as a platform available through the
World Wide Web (SaaS), [the Company] commits itself to never exploit users' data
or behaviors. By "exploit" we mean sending users' data (even anonymized) to a
third-party in order to make profit. Users should be considered as contributors
to the common goods, not as products.

## Open & Privacy must cohabit

Being open does not mean sharing everything with no respect for privacy. Hence,
[the Company] must provide a way for its customers to keep their data private
until they decide to free their content. [The Company] must incentive, not force
to share though.

## Transparency & Ethic-first

[The Company] must value transparency in communicating its mission, goals and
choices. The more transparent [the Company] is, the better.

[The Company]'s primary motivation must be contributing to the common goods.
Hence, [the Company] must always adopt the most ethical acts/behaviors/decisions
when multiple options are available to it.

## Investors must embrace this Manifesto

If [the Company] is raising funds, incoming investors must accept all rules
stated in this Manifesto without any modification. To prevent further corruption
of [the Company] values, [the Company] statuses deposited to the administration of
the country of affiliation should refer to this Manifesto.

Commit message:

Possible changes to users section issue: #9 (#10)
* Possible changes to users section issue: #9
* Added user right to know location of data

version/1.0.md, after:

---
layout: default
status: draft
created_at: 2016-06-15
current: true
---

The Open Science Company Manifesto
==================================

This manifesto aims at defining fundamental statements every Company running
with the Open Science initiative in mind must respect and promote.

## Open Science pillars are [the Company] culture

Unless [the Company] has good reasons for not respecting them (such as National
Security), every principle of the Open Science initiative should be considered
as an organization's *credo*.

Each time [the Company] produces source code that could help other scientists in
their everyday work (software, data analysis, web servers, etc.), the code
should be open and stored in a public forge that eases community contributions
and explicitly states on its licensing and credits.

If relevant for the scientific community, scientific data collected by [the
Company] should be stored in a public repository that explicitly states on its
licensing and credits. [The Company] should carefully pay attention to the
repository terms & conditions before submitting data to this repository.
Institutional repositories (such as [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org)) must be the
primary choice, but, third-party repositories can also be considered if the
service maintainer (company or institution) explicitly states on the future of
stored data when that maintainer status evolves (fusion, acquisition,
liquidation).

When the time to publish research results has come, [the Company] submits its
manuscript to Open Access journals with an Open Peer Review process.

## Users are not the product

[The Company] must respect the user's right to privacy. [The Company] must not 
sell or give away data about user's use patterns, locations, or other metadata
without explicit, informed consent from the user.

[The Company] must respect the user's right to keep their scientific data 
private. [The Company] will never sell or give away a user's unpublished
scientific data. [The Company] will not publish any analysis that 
includes data which are not publically available at the time of publishing.

[The Company] should treat users as contributors to the common goods, not 
as products. Users have a right to know where there data is being stored 
and how it is being used.

## Open & Privacy must cohabit

Being open does not mean sharing everything with no respect for privacy. Hence,
[the Company] must provide a way for its customers to keep their data private
until they decide to free their content. [The Company] must incentive, not force
to share though.

## Transparency & Ethic-first

[The Company] must value transparency in communicating its mission, goals and
choices. The more transparent [the Company] is, the better.

[The Company]'s primary motivation must be contributing to the common goods.
Hence, [the Company] must always adopt the most ethical acts/behaviors/decisions
when multiple options are available to it.

## Investors must embrace this Manifesto

If [the Company] is raising funds, incoming investors must accept all rules
stated in this Manifesto without any modification. To prevent further corruption
of [the Company] values, [the Company] statuses deposited to the administration of
the country of affiliation should refer to this Manifesto.
