---
layout: default
status: draft
created_at: 2016-06-15
current: true
---

The Open Science Company Manifesto
==================================

This manifesto aims at defining fundamental statements every Company running
with the Open Science initiative in mind must respect and promote.

## Open Science pillars are [the Company] culture

Unless [the Company] has good reasons for not respecting them (such as National
Security), every principle of the Open Science initiative should be considered
as an organization's *credo*.

Each time [the Company] produces source code that could help other scientists in
their everyday work (software, data analysis, web servers, etc.), the code
should be open and stored in a public forge that fosters community contributions
and explicitly states its openness on its licensing and credits.

If relevant for the scientific community, scientific data collected by [the
Company] should be stored in a public repository that explicitly states on its
licensing and credits that it is in the public domain. [The Company] should carefully pay attention to the
repository terms & conditions before submitting data to this repository.
Institutional repositories (such as [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org)) must be the
primary choice, but, third-party repositories can also be considered if the
service maintainer (company or institution) explicitly states the future of
stored data when that maintainer status evolves (fusion, acquisition,
liquidation).

When the time to publish research results has come, [the Company] should submit its
manuscript to Open Access journals with an Open Peer Review process.

## Users are not the product

[The Company] must respect the user's right to privacy. [The Company] must not 
sell or give away data about user's use patterns, locations, or other metadata
without explicit, informed consent from the user.  This consent should be easy to
be understood by the user.

[The Company] must respect the user's right to keep their scientific data 
private. [The Company] will never sell or give away a user's unpublished
scientific data. [The Company] will not publish any analysis that 
includes data which are not publically available at the time of publishing.

[The Company] should treat users as contributors to the common goods, not 
as products. Users have a right to know where their data is being stored,
how it is being used, and how to have their data removed.

## Open & Privacy must cohabit

Being open does not mean sharing everything without respect for privacy. Hence,
[the Company] must provide a way for its customers to keep their data private
until they decide to free their content. [The Company] must incentivize, not force
sharing.

## Transparency & Ethic-first

[The Company] must value transparency in communicating its mission, goals and
choices. The more transparent [the Company] is, the better.

[The Company]'s primary motivation must be contributing to the common good.
Hence, [the Company] must always adopt the most ethical acts/behaviors/decisions
when multiple options are available to it.

## Investors must embrace this Manifesto

If [the Company] is raising funds, incoming investors must accept all rules
stated in this Manifesto without any modification. To prevent further corruption
of [the Company] values, [the Company] statuses deposited to the administration of
the country of affiliation should refer to this Manifesto.
